"Needs" by Gaurav Vaidya

1. Next semester, I'm going to be doing a graduate fellowship at NESCent working
on creating a database to link names across multiple taxonomic databases. The
plan (so far) is to build a system which would have "clusters" of identical names,
such as "Panthera tigris", "Panthera tigris (Linnaeus, 1758)", etc. I think building
this system in a triplestore would be very useful: the triplestore would remember
which relation was asserted by which database (e.g. "ITIS asserts that 'Panthera
tigris (Linnaeus, 1758)' is identical to 'Panthera tigris'"), allowing questions
like "What name does Zoobank use for the species ITIS refers to as 'Panthera tigris'?".
It would also allow relationships to be compared between taxonomic databases 
(e.g. which synonyms do ITIS and WoRMS disagree over?).

The project is still very much in the early stages of planning, but I'd love your 
thoughts on the challenges of implementing a system like this in OWL. I was thrilled 
to discover that you can annotate annotations, which would be necessary to pull this 
off, whether you think that OWL is the best place to do this (on the downside, a 
simple relational database would be easier and faster to implement; however, I think 
the inference engine would be a powerful way to track these relationships, and I think
RDF would be an excellent format in which to distribute this database-of-databases once
it has been created).

2. This summer, I've been working with the Missouri Botanical Gardens to create a 
metadata schema for Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL) illustrations (see
http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/Art+of+Life for information about the project, and
http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/Art+of+Life+-+schema+work for details on the proposed
schema). So far, we've been thinking about a very broad schema which acts like
Darwin Core or Dublin Core in precisely defining a small set of terms. Would there be
any advantages to using OWL to validate the schema? I don't think so: the sort of
vocabularies we would like to use (such as the Getty Art and Architecture Thesaurus)
are not freely available, and the W3C Ontology for Media Resources (see
http://www.w3.org/TR/mediaont-10/) doesn't do much more than provide us with another
set of defined terms. The most interesting part of the project -- linking into
vocabularies of species names -- should probably be kept simple to start off with.
What do you think? Is there something I'm missing?

3. The Wikimedia Commons' categories (see 
http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:CommonsRoot) works exactly like classes 
in OWL: any file or category can be inside any number of other categories. I don't 
know if anybody's tried this, but it'd be interesting to put some of the higher-level 
categories into OWL, and then to use a reasoner to work out where implied categories
are missing (e.g. any image in the category "Boulder, Colorado" should also be in the
categories "Denver area", "Colorado" and "USA"). There's no way I'll have time to
work on this myself, but I could propose it to the Wikipedia community and see if
anybody's interested. Do you think that would be worth doing?
